README.md, before:

# Travel Reservations App

This project is a simple web application for managing hotel reservations. It is built using Flask for the backend and VueJS for the frontend. The application uses local JSON data to simulate a database. VueJS and Tailwind CSS are loaded via CDN, eliminating the need for a frontend build step.

**New**: This project now includes an **MCP (Model Context Protocol) Server** that exposes the reservation system functionality through standardized MCP tools. See [MCP_README.md](MCP_README.md) for details.

## Features

- View available hotel rooms.
- Make a reservation.
- Cancel a reservation.
- View all reservations.
- **MCP Server**: Programmatic access to all features via MCP protocol

## Technologies Used

- **Backend**: Flask (Python)
- **Frontend**: VueJS (loaded via CDN), Tailwind CSS (via CDN)
- **Data Storage**: Local JSON files

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed:

- Python 3.x
- pip3 (Python package installer)

## Project Structure

```
project-root/
|-- static/          # Contains static files served directly
|   |-- js/          # Copied JavaScript application code
|       |-- main.js
|-- src/             # Frontend source file (not directly served)
|   |-- main.js      # Contains all Vue component logic and templates
|-- templates/       # Contains HTML templates for Flask
|   |-- index.html   # Loads Vue/Tailwind CDN and static/js/main.js
|-- app.py           # Main Flask application
|-- mcp_server.py    # MCP server for programmatic access
|-- data.json        # Local JSON file for storing hotel and reservation data
|-- requirements.txt # Python dependencies
|-- README.md        # Project documentation
|-- MCP_README.md    # MCP server documentation
|-- mcp_config.json  # MCP client configuration
|-- LICENSE          # Project License
|-- Changelog.md     # Change history
```

## Setup Instructions

1.  **Clone the repository**:
    ```bash
    git clone <repository-url>
    cd project-root
    ```

2.  **Set up Python Virtual Environment & Install Backend Dependencies**:
    ```bash
    # Set up Python virtual environment (recommended)
    python3 -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`

    # Install Python dependencies
    pip install -r requirements.txt

    # Add a requirements.txt file
    pip freeze > requirements.txt
    ```

3.  **Prepare Frontend JavaScript**:
    The frontend JavaScript (`src/main.js`) needs to be copied to the static directory to be served by Flask.
    ```bash
    # On macOS/Linux
    cp src/main.js static/js/main.js

    # On Windows
    copy src\main.js static\js\main.js
    ```
    *(Note: You need to repeat this copy step whenever you modify `src/main.js`)*

4.  **Run the Application**:
    ```bash
    # Ensure your virtual environment is active
    python3 app.py
    ```
    *(Alternatively, for development mode with auto-reload for backend changes):*
    ```bash
    export FLASK_DEBUG=1 # On Windows use `set FLASK_DEBUG=1`
    python3 -m flask run
    ```

5.  **Access the application**:
    Open your browser and navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:5000`.

## Development

Development involves running the Flask backend and manually copying the frontend JavaScript file after making changes.

1.  **Run the Flask Backend (Development Mode)**:
    ```bash
    # Ensure your virtual environment is active
    export FLASK_DEBUG=1 # On Windows use `set FLASK_DEBUG=1`
    python3 -m flask run
    ```
    The backend will run on `http://127.0.0.1:5000` and automatically reload when backend Python files change.

2.  **Modify Frontend JavaScript**:
    Edit the `src/main.js` file.

3.  **Copy Updated Frontend JavaScript**:
    After saving changes to `src/main.js`, copy it to the static folder:
    ```bash
    # On macOS/Linux
    cp src/main.js static/js/main.js

    # On Windows
    copy src\main.js static\js\main.js
    ```

4.  **Refresh Browser**: Refresh your browser page (`http://127.0.0.1:5000`) to see the frontend changes.

## Usage

- The homepage displays available hotel rooms.
- Use the reservation form to book a room.
- View and manage reservations through the "Reservations" page.

## API Endpoints (Example)

The Vue frontend interacts with the Flask backend via the following API endpoints:

-   `GET /api/rooms`: Retrieves a list of available rooms.
-   `GET /api/reservations`: Retrieves a list of all reservations.
-   `POST /api/reservations`: Creates a new reservation. Expects reservation details in the request body.
-   `DELETE /api/reservations/<reservation_id>`: Cancels an existing reservation.

*(Note: Update these endpoints based on your actual implementation in `app.py`)*

## Data Management

The application uses a `data.json` file to store information about hotel rooms and reservations. This file is read and updated by the Flask backend to simulate database operations.

**Example `data.json` structure:**

```json
{
  "rooms": [
    { "id": 1, "name": "Standard Queen", "availability": 5 },
    { "id": 2, "name": "Deluxe King", "availability": 3 }
  ],
  "reservations": [
    { "id": "res123", "roomId": 1, "guestName": "John Doe", "checkIn": "2025-05-01", "checkOut": "2025-05-05" }
  ]
}
```

## MCP Server

This project includes an **MCP (Model Context Protocol) Server** that provides programmatic access to the reservation system. The MCP server allows AI assistants and other MCP clients to interact with the hotel reservation system through standardized tools.

### Available MCP Tools

- `list_rooms` - Get all available rooms
- `get_room` - Get details of a specific room
- `create_reservation` - Make a new reservation
- `cancel_reservation` - Cancel an existing reservation
- `list_reservations` - Get all reservations
- `search_available_rooms` - Search rooms by criteria

### Running the MCP Server

```bash
# Ensure dependencies are installed
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run the MCP server
python mcp_server.py
```

### Integration with MCP Clients

To use with Claude Desktop or other MCP clients, configure the server in your MCP client configuration. See [MCP_README.md](MCP_README.md) for detailed setup instructions and usage examples.

**Example Configuration** (Claude Desktop):
```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "travel-reservations": {
      "command": "python",
      "args": ["path/to/mcp_server.py"]
    }
  }
}
```

For complete MCP server documentation, see [MCP_README.md](MCP_README.md).

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please fork the repository and submit a pull request for any enhancements or bug fixes.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

Enhance MCP Server Integration and Documentation
- Updated PROJECT_SUMMARY.md to include new files and VS Code setup instructions.
- Revised README.md to highlight MCP server features and added links to relevant documentation.
- Modified mcp_config.json to use consistent drive letters for paths.
- Improved test_mcp_server.py with a comprehensive test suite for MCP server validation.
- Added example settings.json for VS Code configuration.
- Created VSCODE_INSTALLATION.md for detailed installation and setup instructions for the MCP server in VS Code.
- Implemented setup scripts (setup_vscode_mcp.ps1 and setup_vscode_mcp.sh) for automated configuration of the MCP server in Windows and macOS/Linux environments.
- Added vscode_mcp_config.json as an example configuration file for VS Code.

README.md, after:

# Travel Reservations App

This project is a simple web application for managing hotel reservations. It is built using Flask for the backend and VueJS for the frontend. The application uses local JSON data to simulate a database. VueJS and Tailwind CSS are loaded via CDN, eliminating the need for a frontend build step.

**New**: This project now includes an **MCP (Model Context Protocol) Server** that exposes the reservation system functionality through standardized MCP tools. 

## Documentation

- 📘 [MCP Server Documentation](MCP_README.md) - Complete MCP server features and usage
- 🔧 [VS Code Installation Guide](VSCODE_INSTALLATION.md) - Step-by-step guide for installing the MCP server in VS Code
- 📋 [MCP Quick Reference](MCP_QUICKREF.md) - Quick reference for MCP tools and commands

## Features

- View available hotel rooms.
- Make a reservation.
- Cancel a reservation.
- View all reservations.
- **MCP Server**: Programmatic access to all features via MCP protocol (see [VS Code Installation Guide](VSCODE_INSTALLATION.md))

## Technologies Used

- **Backend**: Flask (Python)
- **Frontend**: VueJS (loaded via CDN), Tailwind CSS (via CDN)
- **Data Storage**: Local JSON files
- **MCP Server**: Model Context Protocol for AI assistant integration

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed:

- Python 3.x
- pip3 (Python package installer)

## Project Structure

```
project-root/
|-- static/          # Contains static files served directly
|   |-- js/          # Copied JavaScript application code
|       |-- main.js
|-- src/             # Frontend source file (not directly served)
|   |-- main.js      # Contains all Vue component logic and templates
|-- templates/       # Contains HTML templates for Flask
|   |-- index.html   # Loads Vue/Tailwind CDN and static/js/main.js
|-- app.py           # Main Flask application
|-- mcp_server.py    # MCP server for programmatic access
|-- data.json        # Local JSON file for storing hotel and reservation data
|-- requirements.txt # Python dependencies
|-- README.md        # Project documentation
|-- MCP_README.md    # MCP server documentation
|-- mcp_config.json  # MCP client configuration
|-- LICENSE          # Project License
|-- Changelog.md     # Change history
```

## Setup Instructions

1.  **Clone the repository**:
    ```bash
    git clone <repository-url>
    cd project-root
    ```

2.  **Set up Python Virtual Environment & Install Backend Dependencies**:
    ```bash
    # Set up Python virtual environment (recommended)
    python3 -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`

    # Install Python dependencies
    pip install -r requirements.txt

    # Add a requirements.txt file
    pip freeze > requirements.txt
    ```

3.  **Prepare Frontend JavaScript**:
    The frontend JavaScript (`src/main.js`) needs to be copied to the static directory to be served by Flask.
    ```bash
    # On macOS/Linux
    cp src/main.js static/js/main.js

    # On Windows
    copy src\main.js static\js\main.js
    ```
    *(Note: You need to repeat this copy step whenever you modify `src/main.js`)*

4.  **Run the Application**:
    ```bash
    # Ensure your virtual environment is active
    python3 app.py
    ```
    *(Alternatively, for development mode with auto-reload for backend changes):*
    ```bash
    export FLASK_DEBUG=1 # On Windows use `set FLASK_DEBUG=1`
    python3 -m flask run
    ```

5.  **Access the application**:
    Open your browser and navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:5000`.

## Development

Development involves running the Flask backend and manually copying the frontend JavaScript file after making changes.

1.  **Run the Flask Backend (Development Mode)**:
    ```bash
    # Ensure your virtual environment is active
    export FLASK_DEBUG=1 # On Windows use `set FLASK_DEBUG=1`
    python3 -m flask run
    ```
    The backend will run on `http://127.0.0.1:5000` and automatically reload when backend Python files change.

2.  **Modify Frontend JavaScript**:
    Edit the `src/main.js` file.

3.  **Copy Updated Frontend JavaScript**:
    After saving changes to `src/main.js`, copy it to the static folder:
    ```bash
    # On macOS/Linux
    cp src/main.js static/js/main.js

    # On Windows
    copy src\main.js static\js\main.js
    ```

4.  **Refresh Browser**: Refresh your browser page (`http://127.0.0.1:5000`) to see the frontend changes.

## Usage

- The homepage displays available hotel rooms.
- Use the reservation form to book a room.
- View and manage reservations through the "Reservations" page.

## API Endpoints (Example)

The Vue frontend interacts with the Flask backend via the following API endpoints:

-   `GET /api/rooms`: Retrieves a list of available rooms.
-   `GET /api/reservations`: Retrieves a list of all reservations.
-   `POST /api/reservations`: Creates a new reservation. Expects reservation details in the request body.
-   `DELETE /api/reservations/<reservation_id>`: Cancels an existing reservation.

*(Note: Update these endpoints based on your actual implementation in `app.py`)*

## Data Management

The application uses a `data.json` file to store information about hotel rooms and reservations. This file is read and updated by the Flask backend to simulate database operations.

**Example `data.json` structure:**

```json
{
  "rooms": [
    { "id": 1, "name": "Standard Queen", "availability": 5 },
    { "id": 2, "name": "Deluxe King", "availability": 3 }
  ],
  "reservations": [
    { "id": "res123", "roomId": 1, "guestName": "John Doe", "checkIn": "2025-05-01", "checkOut": "2025-05-05" }
  ]
}
```

## MCP Server

This project includes an **MCP (Model Context Protocol) Server** that provides programmatic access to the reservation system. The MCP server allows AI assistants and other MCP clients to interact with the hotel reservation system through standardized tools.

### Available MCP Tools

- `list_rooms` - Get all available rooms
- `get_room` - Get details of a specific room
- `create_reservation` - Make a new reservation
- `cancel_reservation` - Cancel an existing reservation
- `list_reservations` - Get all reservations
- `search_available_rooms` - Search rooms by criteria

### Running the MCP Server

```bash
# Ensure dependencies are installed
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run the MCP server
python mcp_server.py
```

### Integration with MCP Clients

To use with Claude Desktop or other MCP clients, configure the server in your MCP client configuration. See [MCP_README.md](MCP_README.md) for detailed setup instructions and usage examples.

**Example Configuration** (Claude Desktop):
```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "travel-reservations": {
      "command": "python",
      "args": ["path/to/mcp_server.py"]
    }
  }
}
```

For complete MCP server documentation, see [MCP_README.md](MCP_README.md).

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please fork the repository and submit a pull request for any enhancements or bug fixes.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.
